## Condescension

A staff member contacted me when I decided to quit the programme; I mentioned the situation of the study group during the conversation. Her response was something like “Oh, it’s because they don’t play with you.” I probably failed to respond because I was rendered speechless. 

Does this sound familiar if you have read my entries? It’s the “Baby, hehehe.” mentality and narrative. Persecutors seem to like infantilising their targets and proceed to feel everything they do is automatically justified, perhaps because “they are adults and know better”?

If you have heard about the 2019 protests in Hong Kong, the perpetrators in the 2019 Yuen Long attack also had the same narrative. They called their attack “to teach children”. It, in turn, has more similarities with my persecution, such as organised assaults with the police on the side of the perpetrators, or rather, the assailants (and thieves in my case) are on the side of the authorities; a police station closed in unlikely hours or I got intimidated when I visited for help with information or contacting the Home Office; torch was shone at my eyes when the officers counted heads in midnights.

She also asked if I read Naruto. She seemed disappointed when I said I didn’t. I said she could still talk about it. If I remember correctly, she said that there was a character who put everyone into a dream according to his idea of an ideal world; she said that it’s like Greta Thunberg and that if one wants everyone listen to them, one has to be an emperor. I am not sure where that came from, but the mention of Thunberg was probably because environmental protection was in one of my projects, and possibly because of surveillance. Again, this resonates with the persecutor group’s narrative during the supposed asylum process. Some of the names they called me include: king, boss and big boss. And for what reason? Because I don’t respond favourably to their harassment, insult, literal harm, etc.? Many of their name-calling, including “refugee”, suggests they think that I should have taken their animosity as normal, when they have a problem with even me ignoring their harassment.

There was a time when someone approached me and suggested that we should be closer as our nations were close to each other. He mentioned his admiration for the patriotism and nationalism of the Chinese people. It was a time when it was already clear that every person who talked to me there was with the persecutors, but I talked to him nonetheless. By Chinese people, he most likely meant the Communist Chinese. I told him that they only take, won’t give. I told him an example of when I was studying in my homeland. I took the initiative to start a study group. I eventually stopped talking in the group because they wouldn’t say anything, even when they knew the answers to the questions raised. He changed the topic, if I remember correctly; by the end of the conversation, his friendliness had already gone.
